---
lang: en
title: "The Harper paradox: my master's thesis"
tags: UQAM masters thesis conservatism
---
My thesis chases around ex-Prime Minister of Canada Stephen Harper trying to figure out where he got the idea for making tough-on-crime policies the center of his 10 years in power, considering:
* Crime had been falling for 15 years
* No population in the world feels safer than Canadians
* These policies didn't win many votes

A lot of academics and others thought Harper's policies were some kind of electoral ploy, and there's a bit of truth to that, but there are even more problems with that idea. 

Then another twist I didn't expect, turns out Harper had passed 100 new laws, 60 of them new mandatory minimum sentences, and at least 98% of all this activity did either diddley, squat, or both.

For instance, for all Harper's efforts, the incarceration rate hadn't changed at all.
 
The Harper paradox is essentially that: 
* On the one hand, he passed a bunch of symbolic laws but not for electoral reasons
* On the other hand, here's a guy who desperately wants to transform Canada in a conservative direction, yet he spends a huge portion of his energy introducing laws with no substantive effect. 

Strange, n'est-ce pas? 

So the rest of the thesis, I try to understand why he pretended to get tough on crime (my answer: _anchor Canada in its values_), his larger vision (_nation-building_), whose interests this serves (_folks who think they'll benefit from more of what Harper calls 'nationalist solidarity', you know, factories not moving to Asia for profit, that kind of thing_), what all this says about conservatism (_it's a kind of Romanticism, with serious qualms about Enlightenment rationalization and desacralization of everything_). Then I concluded with some thoughts on how to outmaneuver tough-on-crime politics. 

I don't know if you can tell: it was one hell of a thesis, very ambitious for 120 pages, operating on a lot of levels. Not something that’s easy to summarize either. And a lot of my friends, thank God, are simple-pleasures kind of people who frankly have very limited interest in this kind of stuff.
